Additional mechanisms for how SARS-CoV-2 bypasses immune response (#349)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/02.introduction.md

At the time of the WHO's first situation report [@url:https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200121-sitrep-1-2019-ncov.pdf], 282 confirmed cases had been identified, primarily in China, but also 1-2 exported cases had been identified in several neighboring countries (Thailand, Japan, and the Republic of Korea).
One week later, 4593 confirmed cases had been identified, spanning not only Asia, but also Australia, North America, and Europe [@url:https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200128-sitrep-8-ncov-cleared.pdf].
On March 11, 2020, WHO formally classified the situation as a pandemic [@url:https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200311-sitrep-51-covid-19.pdf].
On April 4, 2020, the WHO reported that the number of confirmed cases had surpassed one million globally [@url:https://www.who.int/docs/default-source/coronaviruse/situation-reports/20200404-sitrep-75-covid-19.pdf].

> The number of cases continues to rise daily, with up-to-date numbers tracked by sources such as Google [@url:https://www.google.com/search?q=google+covid+counts].

Reviewer: Note that this may create a merge conflict with #480, where I fixed the figure caption.  We can be careful with whichever of the two pull requests is merged second.

We will critique, sort and distill informative contents out of the overwhelming flood of information and help the larger scientific community to be better educated on this critical subject affecting all of us.
This is a real-time, collaborative effort that welcomes submissions from scientists worldwide.

### About Coronaviruses

### COVID-19: Infection and Presentation

#### Pathogenic Mechanisms of Coronaviruses

Until more information becomes available about the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 specifically, insight can be gained by examining how the human body responds to viral pathogens generally, how infection from related viruses proceeds, and how this information intersects with what is known about COVID-19. 

> The human immune response is double-pronged, with the innate and adaptive immune responses playing distinct roles.

Reviewer 2: Since you describe the types of adaptive immunity, it may be worth also describing briefly here the types of innate immunity. Suggested sentence:
Innate immunity includes barriers (such as skin and other epithelial surfaces, and mucus), innate defenses by most cells (such as through membrane-bound pattern-recognition receptors, and the interferon response), the soluble proteins of the complement system which have roles in innate defense, and immune cells which have roles in innate defense (such as macrophages and natural killer cells).

Through innate immunity, the body can rapidly recognize and attack pathogens and infected cells. 
Cells from innate immunity also pass critical information to prime the adaptive immune response.
Adaptive immunity can be broadly classified into the humoral and cell-mediated responses. 
These are distinct from the innate immune responses because they target specific protein sequences from pathogens. 
The humoral response includes soluble proteins and antibodies that can neutralize and eliminate pathogens in circulation that have not yet entered cells, and can also mediate killing of pathogen-infected cells. 
Cell-mediated responses include the killing of pathogen-infected cells by cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, and the secretion of cytokines to drive inflammation and support immune cell activities.

> The antibody-mediated response works to prevent or reduce entry into cells, while the cell-mediated response works to stop the pathogen's replication and spread.

Reviewer 2: This/after line 41 might be a  place where we could mention long-term immunity. Maybe a sentence like:
Both of these responses have mechanisms for long-term immunity through memory B-cells or memory T-cells.
OR, you could put such a sentence after line 38 "These are distinct... specific protein sequences from pathogens." with maybe a sentence like:
Adaptive immunity also has mechanisms for long-term immunity through memory B-cells or memory T-cells.

##### SARS-CoV-2 and the Immune Response

The first line of defense for the immune system is physical barriers such as the skin and mucus, but viruses such as SARS-CoV that infect the epithelium are able to bypass these defenses [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127].
The innate immune response targets pathogens in circulation.
This response depends on several types of leukocytes (white blood cells) that are professional phagocytic cells, which means they are able to detect and engulf an antigen, enveloping it in a phagosome.
The conditions within the phagosome are then modulated to destroy the pathogen through fusion of the phagosome with a lysosome or granule to form a phagolysosome.
This allows the cell to break the pathogen into its component peptides. 
Monocytes, which include both dendritic cells and macrophages, are both phagocytic white blood cells and professional antigen-presenting cells, which meaning that they can then present the resulting viral peptides on the cell surface using Major Histocompatability Complex II (MHC-II) proteins.

> However, research in related viruses suggests that SARS-CoV-2 may possess some mechanisms that facilitate evasion of the antibody-mediated response.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure how this sentence relates to what's around it (which may be because I haven't read the articles you are referring to -- but still it's a bit confusing to read because the mechanisms it mentions seem different than the previous and following sentence). This is just a note/reminder to sort this out.

_In vitro_ analysis of nidoviruses including SARS-CoV suggests that these viruses can induce the development of double-membrane vesicles, preventing the dsRNA signature from being detected by the host immune system [@doi:10.1128/jvi.02501-05].
This protective envelope can therefore insulate these coronaviruses from the innate immune response's detection mechanism [@doi:10.1016/j.jpha.2020.03.001].

> Presentation of the antigen is important because this step allows it to be detected by B-lymphocytes, also called B-cells, which are a type of white blood cell with antibodies bound to the membrane.

Reviewer 2: typically you can use the term immunoglobulin to refer to either a membrane-bound immunoglobulin/B-cell receptor or non-membrane-bound/soluble/secreted immunoglobin/antibody -- they are both related in structure but "antibody" is just used when it's secreted/soluble/not-membrane-bound. So for example in this line & following line you can say immunoglobulin bound to membrane or membrane-bound immunoglobulin.

Individual B-cells have unique membrane-bound antibodies.
A B-cell is able to bind to an antigen only if its antibody is a match.
For example, toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) can detect double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) present during viral replication, allowing it to recognize a viral threat.
The binding of a pattern recognition receptor (PRR), such as a TLR, to the antigen allows the B-cell to engulf it the virus via endocytocis.
Once the antigen has been processed and presented on the cell surface, helper T-cells can bind to the MHC-II/antigen complex.
This second binding step catalyzes the release of cytokines as part of the inflammatory response, as well as the proliferation of active B-cells (plasma cells) capable of producing the antibodies that respond to the antigen.
Coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV are also able to evade the humoral immune response through other mechanisms, such as inhibiting certain cytokine pathways or down-regulating antigen presentation by the cells [@doi:10.1128/jvi.02501-05].
Additionally, the cell will produce memory B-cells that can retain information about how to respond to future immune challenges by this pathogen.

> Understanding the humoral response to SARS-CoV-2 is important because this component of the immune response works to reduce the severity of infection in the short term and is also the mechanism through which the body can respond to reexposure.

Reviewer 2: For lines 58-66, it gets a bit confusing to read because the order of sentences makes it seems like TLR & B-cell immunoglobulin receptors are the same which they're not. Options: (A) clarify the immunology background explanatory sentences (requires making sure to distinguish different receptors, different recognition mechanisms/receptors, different presentation mechanisms/receptors, which cells have which receptors, & which cells recognize which receptors -- we can sort through this or it may be easier to ask a more frequent immunology researcher like @gregszetoAI or @matfax to write this up but that may be too much) or, as the simpler/shortcut option, (B) skip some of the immunology background explanatory sentences & just keep the sentences which focus on the SARS-CoV-2 information, although I understand that at least some (if not all) the immunology background explanatory sentences may be needed/useful for context at least sometimes.

Reviewer 2: @rando2 & rest, *reminder* for us we still need to have an immunologist (or someone looking very carefully at the specific relevant immunology) to check & adjust-if-needed this stuff discussed in the comments above (what is now lines 164-174)

> Research on other coronaviruses provides some evidence of how the innate immune response may proceed in the presence of SARS-CoV-2.

Reviewer 2: what follows is acquired immune response so you can just say "...how the immune response may proceed..." / remove the specification of "innate" (you might consider remove "innate" from the whole subsection here & just find a subheading which says that you're looking at specific immune system features related to SARS-CoV-2)

Antibodies, also known as immunoglobulins, belong to five classes that describe which antigens they bind to.
Two of the most common immunoglobulin classes are immunoglobulin M (IgM), which are the first antibodies produced in response to an infection, and immunoglobulin G (IgG), which are the most common antibodies found in the blood.

> When an antibody binds to an antigen, it forms a complex can then be cleared by the liver or spleen or through the complement cascade.

Reviewer 2: Option B: You could skip the background lines of 69-71 & just go straight to the evidence related to SARS-CoV-2.
OR
Option A: a few errors to fix in lines 69-71. Reminder to fix these / for now temporary filler comment is that maybe something like this works:
Immunoglobulins belong to five classes which only differ in their constant regions (I need to look this up actually).
Two of the most common immunoglobulin classes are IgM, which are the first immunoglobulins produced in response to an infection, and IgG which are the most common antibodies found in the blood.
When an antibody binds to an antigen, it forms a complex that can then lead to several options (I need to look these up but I don't think liver is correct).

Following SARS infection, IgM antibodies were first detected in most patients during the second week following infection and remained detectable until the twelfth week, while IgG antibodies were first detected in the second or third week and remained at close to their peak concentration through the thirteen weeks of the study [@doi:10.1056/NEJM200307313490520].
A two-year longitudinal study following convalesced SARS patients with a mean age of 29 found that IgG antibodies were detectable in all 56 patients surveyed for at least 16 months, and remained detectable in all but 4 (11.8%) of patients through the full two-year study period [@doi:10.1086/500469].

> Understanding the innate immune response to viral exposure and the mechanisms that allow viruses to evade these mechanisms will be critical for understanding the therapeutic interventions that are being considered for COVID-19.

Reviewer 2: what's here is acquired immune response so you can just say "...how the immune response may proceed..." / remove the specification of "innate" (you might consider remove "innate" from the whole subsection here & just find a subheading which says that you're looking at specific immune system features related to SARS-CoV-2)

> The humoral response to SARS-CoV-2 is important because this component of the immune response works to reduce the severity of infection in the short term and is also the mechanism through which the body can respond to reexposure.

Reviewer 2: "...is also one of the main mechanisms through which the body can respond to reexposure..." (The acquired immune system generates memory B cells and memory T cells, so memory B cells / humoral response isn't the only mechanism)

This allows the cell to break the pathogen into its component peptides. 
Monocytes, which include both dendritic cells and macrophages, are types of phagocytic white blood cells that are also professional antigen-presenting cells, which meaning that they can then present the resulting viral peptides on the cell surface via Major Histocompatability Complex II (MHC-II) proteins.
However, research in related viruses suggests that SARS-CoV-2 may possess some mechanisms that facilitate evasion of the antibody-mediated response.
_In vitro_ analysis of nidoviruses including SARS-CoV suggests that these viruses can induce the development of double-membrane vesicles, preventing the dsRNA signature from being detected by the host immune system [@doi:10.1128/jvi.02501-05].
This protective envelope can therefore insulate these coronaviruses from the innate immune response's detection mechanism [@doi:10.1016/j.jpha.2020.03.001].
Presentation of the antigen is important because this step allows it to be detected by B-lymphocytes, also called B-cells, which are a type of white blood cell with antibodies bound to the membrane.
Individual B-cells have unique membrane-bound antibodies.

> A B-cell is able to bind to an antigen only if its antibody is a match.

Reviewer 2: @rando2 Yes, that's what I meant BUT(!) then I saw that actually even though my suggestion is technically correct, even some biology textbooks use the term antibody a bit more loosely in some ways probably because it sort of makes more sense but they still usually follow that "antibody" implies soluble and then sometimes say something like "membrane-bound antibody" to specify that they are referring to the receptor. (& immunoglobulin can refer to either soluble or receptor) To cover both ways especially b/c what you originally wrote uses more common terminology, you could also write:
"Individual B-cells have unique membrane-bound immunoglobulins (i.e. membrane-bound antibodies).
A B-cell is able to bind an antigen only if its immunoglobulin is a match."
Very sorry for the over-correction!! aak!

Additional accessory genes are sometimes present between these two regions, depending on the species or strain.

Replication of the coronavirus initiates with the binding of the virus to a host cell via the S protein.
The viral membrane fuses with the endosomal membrane to release the viral genome into the host cytoplasm.
The replicase gene is translated and assembled into the viral replicase complex, which can synthesize dsRNA genome from the genomic ssRNA(+).
The dsRNA genome is then transcribed and replicated to create viral mRNAs and new ssRNA(+) genomes [@doi:10.1007/978-1-4939-2438-7_1; @url:https://viralzone.expasy.org/30?outline=all_by_species].

#### Transmission

In general, respiratory viruses like coronavirus can have multiple routes of person-to-person transmission including droplet transmission (i.e. inhalation for cough, sneeze), aerosol transmission (i.e. virus suspended in air), and contact transmission (i.e. contact with oral, nasal, and eye mucous membranes).
Other modes of transmission, such as through touching surfaces or objects and then touching mucous membranes, can also be investigated.

> While existing evidence is insufficient to conclude which mode of transmission different coronaviruses use [@doi:10.1038/s41368-020-0075-9], simulations [@doi:10.1056/NEJMoa032867] and trace studies [@doi:10.3390/ijerph15122757] suggest that person-to-person transmission of coronaviruses is droplet based.

Reviewer 3: This looks good to me, I'm glad you updated it to be more relevant

The viral spike protein, _S_, plays a critical role in viral replication.
There are two domains: the N-terminal (S1 )domain used for binding and the C-terminal (S2) domain for fusion [@doi:10.3390/v4061011].
The S1 domain evolves more rapidly than the S2 domain, and different coronaviruses bind to difference receptors.
Betacoronaviruses are known to bind to CEACAM1, Neu 5,9 Ac2, and ACE2 [@doi:10.3390/v4061011].

### COVID-19: Infection and Presentation

#### Pathogenic Mechanisms of Coronaviruses

Until more information becomes available about the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 specifically, insight can be gained by examining how the human body responds to viral pathogens generally, how infection from related viruses proceeds, and how this information intersects with what is known about COVID-19.
Following exposure to a pathogen such as a virus, pathogenesis involves three major components: entry, replication, and spread [@isbn:0-9631172-1-1 {chap. 45}]. 
The human immune response is double-pronged, with the innate and the adaptive immune response.

> Through innate immunity, also known as humoral or antibody-mediated immunity, the body can eliminate pathogens in circulation that have not yet entered cells.

Author: ```suggestion
Through innate immunity, also known as humoral immune response, the body can eliminate pathogens in circulation that have not yet entered cells.
```

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Through innate immunity, the body can rapidly recognize and attack pathogens and infected cells. Cells from innate immunity also pass critical information to prime the adaptive immune response.
```

Mistake here. Innate immunity is not the antibody or humoral response.

> Adaptive immunity, or the cell-mediated response, is the process by which infected cells are destroyed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Adaptive immunity can be broadly classified into humoral and cell-mediated responses. The humoral response includes soluble proteins and antibodies that can neutralize and eliminate pathogens in circulation that have not yet entered cells, and can also mediate killing of pathogen-infected cells. 
```

> The antibody-mediated response works to prevent or reduce entry into cells, while the cell-mediated response works to stop the pathogen's replication and spread.

Reviewer 4: Not strictly true. Antibodies can also drive cell killing (antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity), while cell-mediated responses can support the production of antibodies.

##### The Innate Immune Response

> The antibody-mediated immune response is innate and provides a way through which the host can detect and respond to a pathogen in circulation.

Reviewer 4: Incorrect. May want to begin with the concept of PAMPs/DAMPs and the rapid recognition of non-self (can write a few sentences this coming weekend), then transition to antigen presentation.

Following exposure to a pathogen such as a virus, pathogenesis involves three major components: entry, replication, and spread [@isbn:0-9631172-1-1 {chap. 45}]. 
The human immune response is double-pronged, with the innate and the adaptive immune response.
Through innate immunity, the body can rapidly recognize and attack pathogens and infected cells. Cells from innate immunity also pass critical information to prime the adaptive immune response.
Adaptive immunity can be broadly classified into humoral and cell-mediated responses. 
These are unique from innate immune responses because they target specific protein sequences from pathogens. 
The humoral response includes soluble proteins and antibodies that can neutralize and eliminate pathogens in circulation that have not yet entered cells, and can also mediate killing of pathogen-infected cells. 
Cell-mediated responses include the killing of pathogen-infected cells by cytotoxic CD8+ T cells, and the secretion of cytokines to drive inflammation and support immune cell activities.

> The antibody-mediated response works to prevent or reduce entry into cells, while the cell-mediated response works to stop the pathogen's replication and spread.

Reviewer 2: A couple of sentences which we could add here (or elsewhere if you find better place) that go along with describing major general points on immune system:
Thus, pathogens infects hosts and hosts have immune defenses and responses; furthermore, pathogens have developed ways to evade the immune system (as well as, in general, various ways to manipulate the host).
Other general complexities to consider include that disease symptoms can be due to a pathogen or due to the reaction of the immune system to the pathogen and that the host immune system can defend against or fight infection but it can also sometimes cause too much damage to the host [doi: 978-0815332183] [doi: 9780071283663].

> 

Reviewer 2: Suggested transition sentences & also informational sentences before going into (subsection about) specifics which include SARS-CoV-2 research (and b/c on line 96 you say that you're starting with other information):

There are a few reviews on the research coming out specific to SARS-CoV-2 with respect to the interferon-mediated innate antiviral responses which are initiated by the virus-infected cells themselves but can also sometimes have inflammatory and systemic effects [doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2020.05.008], the innate immune system response with the focus being on innate immune cells and responses other than the interferon-mediated responses [doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2020.05.009], and different SARS-CoV-2-specific Immunoglobulins (as well as viral RNA) detected over the course of an infection [doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.00879].
Next, we discuss some particular aspects of SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis and host immune response based on primary research, reviews, and context from other viruses.

Reviewer 2: I did not find/read yet a fully-processed(non-preprint) review of acquired immune defenses related to SARS-COV-2 (focusing on the initial exposure / not focusing on vaccine stuff) but I did find/read a good review for T-cells and SARS (CoV-1) from 2014 & there are some articles (non-reviews) which mention acquired immunity and also one of the innate reviews mentions T-cells a bit. For now, in order to also mention T-cells, after/with the list of reviews above we could have a sentence (or comma-clause or semi-colon clause) like:
A review of T-cell mediated responses to respiratory coronaviruses notes a large reduction in T-cells associated with the acute phase of SARS (from SARS-CoV-1) [doi: 10.1007/s12026-014-8534-z] and so far some articles and reviews on SARS-CoV-2 also mention some evidence for reduction in the number of certain T-cells as well as NK-cells [doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2020.04.009; doi: 10.1016/j.chom.2020.05.009].

Reviewer 2: for my above T-cell comment above would someone (@gregszetoAI for example?) confirm that I'm write to make the possible connection between SARS-CoV-1 and SARS-CoV-2 observations on reduction in T-cells (just checking b/c there are different types of T-cells & the timing also matters & I don't regularly look at the immune system at this particular level/scale/etc.)

Reviewer 2: @rando2 I noticed that some other reviews that cover complex topics (like immune system or more often subtopics of immune system) cite other reviews which cover related or complementary topics/subtopics. That's why I suggested maybe mentioning together somewhere major reviews (e.g., from nature or cell journals) focused on subtopics of immune system in case it might be useful to readers who later may want to look these up.

### SARS-CoV-2: Origin, Phylogenetics, and Evolution

#### Origin of SARS-CoV-2

The evolutionary origins of the SARS-CoV-2 virus are not yet fully understood.
Genomic analyses and comparisons to other known coronaviruses suggest that SARS-CoV-2 is unlikely to have originated in a laboratory -- either purposely engineered and released, or escaped -- and instead evolved naturally in an animal host [@doi:10.1038/s41591-020-0820-9].

Among known coronaviruses, SARS-CoV-2 has the closest overall sequence similarity to RaTG13 (~96%) found in a *Rhinolophus affinis* bat [@doi:10.1038/s41586-020-2012-7], while the receptor binding domain (RBD) is highly similar to that of viruses found in pangolins [@doi:10.1101/2020.02.19.950253].
This suggests that SARS-CoV-2 may have originated in viral reservoirs of similar hosts; however, current evidence cannot discriminate an origin of the virus before or after zoonotic transfer to humans [@doi:10.1038/s41591-020-0820-9].

The viral spike protein, _S_, plays a critical role in viral replication.
The N-terminal S1 domain used for binding and the C-terminal S2 domain for fusion [@doi:10.3390/v4061011].

> The S1 domain evolves more rapidly than the S2 domain, and different coronaviruses bind to difference receptors.

Reviewer 3: Really interesting! I really appreciate how thorough your immunology reading is. I've learned a lot. Do you think this is too much detail to include in the paper? I guess I was assuming that areas targeted by the immune system would be more variable due to this positive selection, which it sounds like whats happening...

Until more information becomes available about the pathogenesis of SARS-CoV-2 specifically, insight can be gained by examining how the human body responds to viral pathogens generally, how infection from related viruses proceeds, and how this information intersects with what is known about COVID-19.
Following exposure to a pathogen such as a virus, pathogenesis involves three major components: entry, replication, and spread [@isbn:0-9631172-1-1 {chap. 45}]. 
The human immune response is double-pronged, with the innate and the adaptive immune response.
Through innate immunity, also known as humoral or antibody-mediated immunity, the body can eliminate pathogens in circulation that have not yet entered cells.
Adaptive immunity, or the cell-mediated response, is the process by which infected cells are destroyed.
The antibody-mediated response works to prevent or reduce entry into cells, while the cell-mediated response works to stop the pathogen's replication and spread.

##### The Innate Immune Response

The antibody-mediated immune response is innate and provides a way through which the host can detect and respond to a pathogen in circulation.

> This response depends on several types of leukocytes (white blood cells) that are professional phagocytic cells, which means they are able to detect and engulf an antigen, enveloping it in a phagosome.

Reviewer 2: (reminder note to get this: line 99 & line 100 categorizations seem mixed up, will get back to this later/soon)

> This response depends on several types of leukocytes (white blood cells) that are professional phagocytic cells, which means they are able to detect and engulf an antigen, enveloping it in a phagosome.

Reviewer 2: (still reminder notes but maybe it'll be useful to clarify when you're splitting the immunity types/sub-sections: there's categorizations innate immunity & adaptive immunity [and maybe more], there's also another type of categorization which is sort of similar or parallel of nonspecific immune defenses & specific immune defenses, and I do not know if there's a preference in terminology; within specific immune defenses & the similar term adaptive immunity there's commonly a terminology splitting into humoral/antibody/b-cell/~extracellularAntigen-sort-of based immunity & the cell-based/cytotoxic-T-cell-stuff/~intracellularAntigen-sort-of based immunity) & T-helper cells are related to both (though there's also there some categorizations of TH1 and TH2); from what I remember these are the typical categorizations used, and there's also big terms like inflammation & there's also the complexity and interactions between big terms which I do not remember or have not read enough about. From a brief look, it seems like you have both specific things & general things, and it seems you may need to double-check your references or word-choice for the general things comparing it to what I remember while for the specific things I haven't taken the time yet to read what you wrote carefully though I see another review has :-)   . It's good you're identifying what seems relevant/important; meanwhile, since I'm not very comfortable with immunology (even if I do some more reading or review I don't have enough experience to feel comfortable with it unless I'm checking something specific) I can't give you exact comments.)

> This response depends on several types of leukocytes (white blood cells) that are professional phagocytic cells, which means they are able to detect and engulf an antigen, enveloping it in a phagosome.

Reviewer 2: In this subsection draft, there's a mixture of good information but some of it is innate and some of if is acquired. Sometimes there are interactions between innate and acquired & sometimes some cells can work as either/both innate and acquired, but still it might be simpler to separate these better so there's less confusion when reading. We can figure out ways to re-assort the information between innate & adaptive...

The conditions within the phagosome are then modulated to destroy the pathogen through fusion of the phagosome with a lysosome or granule to form a phagolysosome.
This allows the cell to break the pathogen into its component peptides. 
Monocytes, which include both dendritic cells and macrophages, are both phagocytic white blood cells and professional antigen-presenting cells, which meaning that they can then present the resulting peptides on the cell surface using Major Histocompatability Complex II (MHC-II) proteins.
However, research in related viruses suggests that SARS-CoV-2 may possess some mechanisms that facilitate evasion of the antibody-mediated response.

> _In vitro_ analysis of nidoviruses including SARS-CoV suggests that these viruses can induce the development of double-membrane vesicles, preventing the dsRNA signature from being detected by the host immune system [@doi:10.1128/jvi.02501-05].

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by "dsRNA siganture" here? I think I'm confused by what the innate immune system is detecting in this case?

> This protective envelope can therefore insulate these coronaviruses from the innate immune response's detection mechanism [@doi:10.1016/j.jpha.2020.03.001].

Reviewer 3: When you say insulate, you mean the surface antigens are embedded in the double membrane and therefore goes undetected by the innate immune system?

Author: So here is a nice description from [@doi:10.1016/j.jpha.2020.03.001]: "SARS-CoV and MERS-CoV can induce the production of double-membrane vesicles that lack PRRs and then replicate in these vesicles, thereby avoiding the host detection of their dsRNA [39]." (with 39 being the article cited inline)
Do you think that the text I wrote is consistent with this? I used "insulate" but I didn't mean it in any kind of technical way, we could also swap for "protect" or something!

Presentation of the antigen is important because this step allows it to be detected by B-lymphocytes, also called B-cells, which are a type of white blood cell with antibodies bound to the membrane.
Individual B-cells have unique membrane-bound antibodies.
A B-cell is able to bind to an antigen only if its antibody is a match.
For example, toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) can detect double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) present during viral replication, allowing it to recognize a viral threat.

> The binding of a pattern recognition receptor (PRR), such as a TLR, to the antigen allows the B-cell to engulf it via endocytocis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The binding of a pattern recognition receptor (PRR), such as a TLR, to the antigen allows the B-cell to engulf it the virus via endocytocis.
```

This second binding step catalyzes the release of cytokines as part of the inflammatory response, as well as the proliferation of active B-cells (plasma cells) capable of producing the antibodies that respond to the antigen.
Coronaviruses such as SARS-CoV are also able to evade the humoral immune response through other mechanisms, such as inhibiting certain cytokine pathways or down-regulating antigen presentation by the cells [@doi:10.1128/jvi.02501-05].
Additionally, the cell will produce memory B-cells that can retain information about how to respond to future immune challenges by this pathogen.
Understanding the humoral response to SARS-CoV-2 is important because this component of the immune response works to reduce the severity of infection in the short term and is also the mechanism through which the body can respond to reexposure.

Research on other coronaviruses provides some evidence of how the innate immune response may proceed in the presence of SARS-CoV-2.
Antibodies, also known as immunoglobulins, belong to five classes that describe which antigens they bind to.

> Two of the most commonly discusses immunoglobulin classes are immunoglobulin M (IgM), which are the first antibodies produced in response to an infection, and immunoglobulin G (IgG), which are the most common antibodies found in the blood.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Two of the most common immunoglobulin classes are immunoglobulin M (IgM), which are the first antibodies produced in response to an infection, and immunoglobulin G (IgG), which are the most common antibodies found in the blood.
```

This allows the cell to break the pathogen into its component peptides, which allow the body to organize a response to the specific pathogen.

The adaptive immune response is the second line of defense once a pathogen has entered the body.
It, in turn, can be broadly classified into the humoral and cell-mediated responses. 
The humoral response includes soluble proteins and antibodies that can neutralize and eliminate pathogens in circulation that have not yet entered cells, and it can also mediate the killing of pathogen-infected cells. 
The cell-mediated response includes the killing of pathogen-infected cells by cytotoxic CD8+ T cells and the secretion of cytokines to drive inflammation and support immune cell activities.
The immune response therefore describes the complex interplay between pathogens infecting hosts and hosts responding with a multifaceted immune defense; a pathogen's virulence depends on its success in evading the immune system or otherwise manipulating the host.
Innovation in therapeutics often seeks to supplement or bolster the immune response in order to enhance the body's ability to eliminate a pathogen.

> However, disease symptoms can be caused either by a pathogen or by the immune response to the pathogen, and a host immune system's efforts to fight an infection can also sometimes cause significant damage to the host [@doi:978-0815332183; @doi:9780071283663].

Reviewer: Are both of these DOI citations actually ISBN citations?

Reviewer 2: @agitter they are both standard textbooks, if that's what you're asking?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, disease symptoms can be caused either by a pathogen or by the immune response to the pathogen, and a host immune system's efforts to fight an infection can also sometimes cause significant damage to the host [@isbn:9780815332183; @isbn:9780071283663].
```

Thanks for confirming @yemarshall.  I wanted to check whether we could change the Manubot citations as suggested here.   These Manubot citations give:
```
Molecular biology of the cell
Bruce Alberts (editor)
Garland Science (2002)
ISBN: 9780815332183

Vander’s human physiology: the mechanisms of body function
Eric P Widmaier, Hershel Raff, Kevin T Strang
McGraw-Hill Higher Education (2008)
ISBN: 9780071283663
```

Reviewer 2: that looks right. (The first textbook has multiple authors but the editor shown above is the first author so that works.)

Therefore, understanding how the host responds to SARS-CoV-2 and when this response becomes dangerous is critical to the treatment of COVID-19 and to the identification and/or development of possible therapeutics.

##### hCOV and the Immune Response

Research in other coronaviruses that affect humans provides some indication of how SARS-CoV-2 infection proceeds in spite of the human immune response.
While the first line of defense for the immune system is physical barriers such as the skin and mucus, viruses such as SARS-CoV that infect the epithelium are known to be adept at bypassing these defenses [@doi:10.1038/mi.2015.127]. 
However, research in related viruses suggests that SARS-CoV-2 may possess some mechanisms that facilitate evasion of detection by monoctyes.

> Double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), which is produced during the viral replication process, is a PAMP that would typically initiate a response from the innate immune system [@doi:10.3389/fimmu.2018.00829].

Reviewer: dsRNA is already defined above and does not need to be redefined here and in line 166.

This protective envelope can therefore insulate these coronaviruses from the innate immune response's detection mechanism [@doi:10.1016/j.jpha.2020.03.001].
Presentation of the antigen is important because this step allows it to be detected by B-lymphocytes, also called B-cells, which are a type of white blood cell with immunoglobulins bound to the membrane.
Individual B-cells have unique membrane-bound immunoglobulins (i.e. membrane-bound antibodies).
A B-cell is able to bind to an antigen only if its immunoglobulin is a match.
This process is guided by proteins called pattern-recognition receptors (PRRs), which include toll-like receptors (TLRs) that respond to specific molecular signatures associated with classes of pathogens.
For example, toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) can detect double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) present during viral replication, allowing it to recognize a viral threat.
When TLR7 detects single-stranded RNA, it can initiate the production of interferon, a cytokine, to stimulate nearby cells to mount an immune response to a virus [@isbn:9780321743671]. 

> The binding of a pattern recognition receptor (PRR), such as a TLR, to the antigen allows the B-cell to engulf it the virus via endocytocis.

Reviewer 2: @nilswellhausen would you look at this sentence on line 168 as well? 2 standard biology textbooks I looked at only showed B-cell endocytosing antigen it recognized through B-cell receptor and then blablabla (making into smaller parts...) & then presenting with MHCII receptor to T-Helper cell. This sentence line 168 seems to say that there are also cases where you can substitute "TLR" instead of "B-cell receptor" in what I wrote in this comment, but I don't know/remember if that's true or common? Or does this sentence mean to say that TLR in some other indirect way interacts?? @rando2 maybe re-check your source? or easiest if @nilswellhausen or another person with lots of immunology experience answers (I can get an answer if needed, but just asked here because I noticed new feedback).

Reviewer 5: Yeah I don't think that function of TLR's is to allow the B cell to engulf the virus. They recognize things like dsRNA etc and activate pro-inflammatory signaling pathways (NFkB, Irak etc).
